---
title: Major Release of Config
layout: post
tags: Config Development
---

Just now the new [Config](https://alinex.github.io/node-config) module becomes
ready to use. It is a complete rewrite to support the new validator and make the
setup more powerful. It is also changed to add a proper update ans watching
of log resources later.

The major changes in Version 1.0.0 are:

- new setup mechanism
- more supported formats
- format auto detection
- use new validator

This version is not backward compatible because the setup and also the access
method are completely changed. Also because the used validator is updated all validation rules
have to be rewritten.

Details of changes
------------------------------------------------------------------

I only describe the major changes in it's core. See the links below for more information.

### Setup and Use

To use the configuration management you have to load the module.
But before you can access your configuration you have to setup the system if not
already done and initialize it:

``` coffee
# register common configuration paths for application
config.register 'myapp', __dirname
# add a special path on the end (highest priority)
config.pushOrigin
  uri: 'file:///etc/my-config.yml'
# and add a schema to verify the database settings are correct
config.setSchema 'database',
  type: ....  # schema

# start initializing the configuration and load the data
config.init (err) ->
  return cb err if err
  # all configurations are loaded successfully
```

Make sure that the initialization is completely done for all configuration data
before using it. If you change the setup later you have to reinit everything which
causes an extra afford which you should skip if possible.

After that is done you can easily access the configuration like:

``` coffee
conf = config.data
# here you have the whole registry data
conf = config.get 'server'
# and now you have only the server structure
conf = config.get 'database/master/address'
# or only a specific database connection
```

> To don't mess with the names: I always address the instance with `config` and use
> a short name like `conf` for some data out of it.

### Formats

Now all major file formats which are used for configuration files are supported.

- YAML - very easy to read syntax with less braces
- XML - standardized and wide used format
- JSON - easy format with object type support
- JS - similar as JSON but with comments and calculations possible
- CSON - same as JSON but in CoffeeScript notation
- INI - simple key = value pairs with optional groups widely used
- PROPERTIES - similar to INI format but with group as prefix (from java world)

### Auto detection

You may set the parser to use for better performance. But it is also possible to
let the library auto detect it. This is done in some steps:

1. try to use the default parser based on the file extension
2. try all parsers one by one till the first work
3. if nothing works give an error (see the debug messages for more details)

### Validator

The [Validator](https://alinex.github.io/node-validator) has recently changed
and as this is a main part of a configuration the new version is supported now.
See the see [Release Information](http://alinex.github.io/2015/07/03/validator.html)
to get more details on this part.

Future changes
------------------------------------------------------------------

I plan to add watch functionality with auto reload and listener support.
Also the supported web formats will be extended and database access will come,
too.

More Information
------------------------------------------------------------------

See all the individual changes in the
[Changelog](/node-config/Changelog.md.html).
And how to use it in the Manual for [Config](https://alinex.github.io/node-config).
