---
title: Alinex Goals
layout: post
tags: Alinex
---

The code developed under the label Alinex was used as a testing environment at
the start. But always with high quality on modern and clean code. I will not
make any time stress and are not developing on fixed road map here.

Since about eight years I developed this modules here, at first under PHP and
Java. But for my private developments here I have now switched to JavaScript & Co
since over a year. Code has since then be rewritten multiple times but the good
concepts are kept like in the [Validator](http://alinex.github.io/node-validator)
which also existed in a [PHP Server](http://alinex.de/server/html/index.html)
which was a long time ago.

It changed often in the years and a lot of other projects are successors of this.
But now this project itself should be finished to build a complete basis for the
next projects.

## My Seven Goals

Alinex should be a collection of stable, flexible and strong integrated components
to make a base system for any powerful application. Web applications are used more
and more also with the new term 'software as a service' and the big market share of
tablet computers and smart phones.

To reach this there are already a lot of frameworks which help in development,
but often they are very complex and not flexible enough. The hardest part in web
applications is often to support the server side and the client side the same way.
Most frameworks lack in the one or the other part. Alinex aims this and will
in the long term support both. But not everything will be programmed, as far as
possible existing third party code will be integrated or supported.

Also I won't create the one system which can do nearly everything but better make
multiple modules which can be combined and may do everything if used together.

### Development

First of all it should be a base for creating applications so it is my first
priority to make something which is __easy to use for the developer__ and gives
them optimal support. This should be reached through as __much automation__ as
possible. As a developer I want to think on the coding not on the surroundings
but want to be informed of anything I forgot by __automated analysis and testing__.

### Coding Guidelines

Next I will follow concrete coding guidelines to not only __have a consistent
design__ using the same style of method construction and over all of my own
modules. Also important __variables are standardized__ and has to use
__speaking names__ to allow for easy reading. The guideline itself should not be
a special of mine but the basics which most developers use.

### Testing/Quality

While and after coding the __testing of functionality__ is one of the key concept
for quality. It is my goal to have a __nearly complete test coverage__ over my
code and also write the tests while coding. This also allows to use __contineous
integration__ to check the code on different system setups.

### Packaging/Versioning

The delivery of the software will be done in packages which are __easy to install
and maintain__ but only after a full success of tests. Packages are already
__precompiled/minified for use__ and are available through repositories.

To help in maintaining the software as application or as module I will use
__semantic versioning__ and will not change backward compatibility in a hotfix
release.

### Documentation

The documentation should be easy to write (if not i won't write it) so I will
__write it with the code__ and automatically extract it to be __viewed in the
browser__. This includes Readme, API and Man pages.

### Quantity

I want to have quantity in form of __speed in productive use__ and also in
__speed of making changes__. The first one will be reached by making everything
asynchronous, non-blocking and also doing everything in parallel as far as possible.
The maintainability is given by modularization and using __clean interfaces__.

### Security

And at last but not least the security of the created applications have to be
given. Therefore I will sanitize all external data through a strong validator
which prevents inputing wrong data formats.
