---
title: Automatic Documentation Extraction (2)
layout: post
tags: doc jsDoc develop
---

Now just a month after my last post to this I'm lucky to have done the step in
creating my own tool. I used [docker.js](https://github.com/jbt/docker) a long
time to generate my API docs and manual. But was desperate about the development
speed and functionality. At first place only as a test I hacked a quick solution
using some of my other modules to generate simple documentation with graphs and more.

> See the results at [codedoc](http://alinex.github.io/node-codedoc).


State of Development
==================================================================
As the current version number shows the tool is ready to be used and in the moment
I have already made it's own and another module's documentation with it and integrated
it in my development chain.

It is feature complete and contains all the main features I wanted. But it's not as
universal as other tools just now. It has a strong focus on CoffeeScript but should
do for all other languages with some more specifications equaly. Netherless I get
more ideas while using it and will further enhance it.

Languages
------------------------------------------------------------------
As I myself don't need parsing of all languages I won't add them while nobody uses
it. But I will fully enable each language you need. Give me an issue and a repository
to test on and I will do so.

User Interface
----------------------------------------------------------------
This is based on the markdown to HTML transformation of the [alinex-report](https://alinex.github.io/node-report)
package. Here are some more features on my list which will make documentation
visually better:
- open/closable code examples
- tabbed code examples
- auto translated coffee->ja, cson->json, yaml->json...


Main Features
===============================================================

Markdown
:   Lots of possibilities to add like graphs, charts, code, definition lists...
    Very usefull is the addition of graphs showing how something works using
    plantuml syntax.

Different Docs
:   It may generate a shorter documentation as manual with all to know for the
    users of a module but also generate a internal view which includes all documentation
    allongside with the code.

API Docs
:   With the help of JSDoc/JavaDoc tags it is very easy to create a common interface
    definition with linking between the elements.

Responsive Design
:   The default style is complete responsive making it possible to easy access the
    whole documentation also on a smartphone.

Automatic Linking
:   While the author only writes what he will link to (method or file) in a short
    form the codedoc tool will search the concrete URL and add it. It will look in
    the documentation itself but also in internet references defining the language
    core.


My next Steps
==================================================================
What will I do next? Generate all documentation with it?

Yes, but that's easy said. I will need some time to do just this because I will
not only generate the same documentation with another tool. My goal is to improve
the documentation and while going over the code also adding some things which I
collected for each module over the past and enhance test coverage.

That will take some months but improves all the modules in usability, stability and
functionality.

Have a look and stay tuned

_Alexander Schilling_
