---
title: What was done 2015?
layout: post
tags: Status
---

The last year was filled with lot's of basic CoffeeScript work in which I made
a lot of modules which were really necessary for a back office system. With them
I could make my first big project the monitoring tool run able in a first version.

My plans were to also make something in the web frontend area but I got out of
time and had to focus on the backend. I got a first configurable server ready
but lots of bricks are missing in building a base system for frontend applications.

I will show what is reached and in  which areas I may add new things in 2016.

Back Office Modules
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

    [X] file manipulation
    [X] configuration
    [X] validation
    [X] command execution
    [X] database connection
    [X] ssh tunneling
    [X] report generation
    [ ] multilingual support

Like you see all the modules could be created here but they all may get some
more features in the future.

Systems
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    [X] command line interface
    [X] linux integration
    [X] http server
    [ ] template support
    [ ] CMS

Web Frontend
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    [ ] REST Interface
    [ ] Common Framework integration

Resume
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Like you see I have mainly a road from back to frontend. But as more modules evolve
the maintenance work rises and needs time slowing development of new things a bit down.
The real applications are missing here because I only got the
[Monitor](http://alinex.github.io/node-monitor) partly running and are not planing on
any other openly developed application, yet.

But keep in touch here. And if you see nothing in my blog it mostly is because
I'm to heavy coding in this time.

Wish all of you a good developing 2016.
