---
title: Automatic Documentation Extraction
layout: post
tags: doc jsDoc develop
---

Since some time I use [docker.js](https://github.com/jbt/docker) to generate my
code documentation. Because it lacks some style settings I had some postprocessing
added on the files to optimize the result.

That worked till now but I want to go a step further and make my documentation better.
The development of docker is nearly going to a halt short before the new major
version is going final. So I decided to go into the project in the hope of speeding
development up. I offered help and started analyzing the code.

But as more as I red I got the idea of making it the alinex style. So I decided
to give it a try and created [codedoc](http://alinex.github.io/node-codedoc). This
should be a parallel version and I try to add the fixes to the original docker, too.


Base concepts
==================================================================
At first I wanted to make it possible to generate a proper manual. Therefore
the follwoing steps should be done at first:

- responsive design
- convert markdown
- extract block commets as markdown
- extract block comments with javadoc like help
- add code with highlighting and inline comments

Because I have to enhance some base packages it will take it's time.


Roadmap
==================================================================

Because I do this in my free time, I can't give concrete dates but estimations based
on the ammount of work and my time.

- __v0.1.1 (2016-07-13)__
  use it's own report style
- __v0.2.0__
  enable file structure linking
- __v0.3.0__
  extract Code Block Comments
- __v0.4.0__
  support JavaDoc like @comments
- __v1.0.0__
  the version used in the alinex packages now


It is not my goal to make yet another documentation tool for the world but for my needs.
Either if you find it meets also your needs you may use it maybe, too.

_Alexander Schilling_
