---
title: Upgrade to Linux Mint 18
layout: post
tags: Linux
---

After my installation of my new Acer E5 in january - (old post)[http://alinex.github.io/2016/01/20/new-linux-laptop.html] - i had to
upgrade it now. I had some problems with the wifi because of the new chipset, which
wasn't suupported in the kernel of Linux Mint 17.x based on Ubuntu 14.04.

Linux Mint 18 Sarah
--------------------------------------------------------------
This was realeséd end of June 2016 and is based on Ubuntu 16.04.
It will be supported till 2021.

- Kernel 4.4
- Cinnamon 3.0
- X-Apps
- new Design

Test and Installation
--------------------------------------------------------------
I waited just till the final release to download the 64bit cinnamon edition and
install it on an USB stick using (unetbootin)[https://unetbootin.github.io/].

I booted from the stick and checked everything out. My main problem with the wifi
chipset was solved and all other things look good.

As I don't made a free disk for an alternative OS I had to repartition my disk
and therefore backup everything. I don't want to make a dist upgrade between
major distribution version to get a better system without old tails.
As backup I stored the folders `/etc` and `/home` on an external disk as tgz archive.

The installation was done from the live boot. But I made my own partitioning this time
there I created a 100G Partition for the new Linux, another 100G Partition (empty
for future parallel os), a small swap partition with 8GB and all the rest as data
partition mounted as `/home`.

After installation I copied my backups from `/home` back and installed only the
really used programs from my last install again.

Results
--------------------------------------------------------------
In the end I got a great working system without compromises. Everything works
perfectly now and I could work fully again after just an hour of installation work.
