---
title: Switching from Cinnamon to KDE
layout: post
tags: linux mint kde
---

My new notebook (age 9 months) got a problem with it's backlight so I had to return
it for repair. I got it back with newly installed windows 10 so the first thing I
had to do was installing a usable operating system.

Because I had the chance to try something new out I decided to go with Linux Mint
KDE edition.


History
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I am using linux now since my study time. 1996 I started with slackware linux
for my first steps. Later about 1998 I started to use the K Desktop environment
under Suse Linux. Only later I found out it was founded by a student about 30km
away from my hometown.

KDE in its early days was great, feature rich and powerful but as it evolves it
got more and more performance consuming. That was the reason for me to change
and try out Xfce, gnome. \
The next step was the change in the linux distribution there I changed to a debian
based distribution. I decided to Ubuntu but changed again to use Linux Mint with
Gnome because of it's included media codecs. But then came Gnome 3 and I changed to
the newly evolving cinnamon.


Reasons for KDE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
As KDE has grown some time since I last used it and because I was lucky with it
earlier and also use some KDE apps under Cinnamon I gave it another try.
Also the hardware performance is better and I have a middle class notebook for it.


Impressions
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
As said before I installed Linux Mint 18 which comes with Plasma 5.6 Desktop.
The installation went smooth and I got a running KDE system easy and fast.
The performance is ok for me and doesn't matter so much as long as it is not slowing
too much. But within the features I hope to find help to improve and speed up my
working.

__The Search__ using `Ctrl-F2` is working with autocomplete and works fast for apps
and documents - that's really helpful and for me faster than the start menu.

__Language__ the german translations are not completely installed and also if it is
not really complete. But that doesn't matter for me.

__Network Manager__ is easy usable for WLAN and also OpenVPN is working fast after
only importing a setting file.

__Konsole__ as replacement to Terminal, Terminator and ClusterSSH uses some other
Shortcuts to change between Tabs (I have to learn) but it combines the parallel
working in multiple Windows from the latter two.

__Activities__ as extension to the multiple Desktops is something you have to learn
to use correctly. At first I'm not able to use it's power and have to take small
steps with it. But I will keep going because I like the idea of pausing some Activities
and get the resources free while doing some other things.

__KMail__ as replacement for Thunderbird is not as easy. I can work easy and fast
with Thunderbird and some Plugins. But to use KMail I have to customize it my way
which is not easy to find all settings. Till now I didn't check the integration with
addressbooks and calender for google accounts.


Next steps
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
That was only a small test on my personal notebook. If everything works great in the
next months I will also install it on my workstation at work within the next year.


_Alexander Schilling_
