---
title: Comming to the border lines of NodeJS
layout: post
tags: development nodejs
---

A long time since my last post.


What was going on?
----------------------------------------------
I was hard working on further optimization the `alinex-report` and `alinex-codedoc`
modules with a complete rework in NodeJS. The purpose was to enhance it more
and make it more flexible.

My goals were:
- multiple output formats for the reports
- complete markdown converting back and forward without loss of information
- alternative input formats
- codedoc using the new features of report V2/V3
- codedoc with both formats

The most parts are completely reached so far and both modules working.

But I got the problem as I put everything together and generating Documentation
of a bigger code base. Therefore lots of files will be read, the complete documentation
text will be brought into structures which were transformed and optimized in
memory and finally written to the individual files. While writing down to the files
the program broke with an segmentation fault.

I had some headache to fix this but could not really solve it because the real
cause might be the complexity not a particular code because the position is floating
while disabling the one or the other code.
I tried a lot of things found on the net but could not really come to the problem's
source.


Webobjects
---------------------------------------------
Because it was really needed I created a new package `alinex-webobjects` which
uses the `alinex-report` package and some others from the alinex universe to generate
a small server. It will enable to read objects which are linked between which are
stored in database, log files or other data structure. The source of information
is here no border line and everything together gives an easy to use and fast browser.

Currently it is still in development but already used for practical work.


Conclusion
---------------------------------------------
For me personally I found out that NodeJS is really good to make some small to medium
sized projects. It is really fast in prototyping and works well in runtime. But
for real critical parts and especially bigger problems it's not mature enough at
the moment and near future.

Therefore I decided to do some other things in my free time and learn another language,
again. I will look at `Go` and  `Rust` and go with one of them.


_Alexander Schilling_
