---
title: Frontend Development
layout: post
tags: JavaScript Angular Vue Quasar
---

After all the learning of JavaScript and it's eco system on the server side. I will
use my days off of work to dive back into front end development which I did some
years ago. A lot has changed since that and complete new frameworks are there, now.
My last experiences were with qooxdoo, jQuery, Bootstap and often a lot of hand made things.

# Idea

The goal is to make a modern admin panel useable in Browser, App and maybe as a Desktop
Application, too. A REST service should later feed the panel.

# Solutions

**Angular**

As I worked with TypeScript lately Angular was one of the big Frameworks I had a deeper
look on. But it's design is very complex with a deep learning curve and so I got there
feeling that it is not optimal suited for my personal mind. I could not get the right clue
and always thought of why should I do it so and not how can I change that...
Also the TypeScript makes it difficult to use hints from stackoverflow because I was
always fighting against TypeScript or Runtime Errors.

**Vue2**

The Basic concept was very clear for me, a lot of projects are based on it. But the list
of components, material designs... is really long and I had problem finding which ones
are further developed, based on Vue2 and are state of the art.

**Quasar Framework**

That is a project which brings all together: Vue2, Material Design, Components and
the possibility to build native Apps and Applications. I was looking at this project since
some time. It is based on a single developer but is done very well.

# Roadmap

So after reading a lot of documentation of all of the above I decided to try my way
using quasar. So in the next days I will:
- create a quasar admin project
- make the basic layout
- create some components
- interact with simple test service
- integrate login and authentication


You may read more about it here, later.

_Alexander Schilling_
