---
title: Admin Panel Milestone 5
layout: post
tags: Admin Panel, Application, Vue, Quasar, Feathers
---

Slowly going further...

I am glad to announce that I reached my next milestone with the application and got it more solid.

## Milestone 5 reached

I finalized the authentication system now it's easy to declare a page as secure which prevents from showing it without authorization. The login form will appear and show the page after successful login - as it always should be.

Further I completely added I18N support. Therefore the text elements are replaced with calls to the translation methods using hierarchical identifiers.
Within the `i18n` directory every language has it's folder with JavaScript objects setting the text elements. 
The switch of the language will work by loading the language and trigger events to change the text immediately through using Vue bindings.
The translations also support variables and pluralization.

And the last part in this milestone was the user administration which is now working. Users can be:
- created
- updated
- deleted

This is done with forms which also validate while the form is filled out. As the whole application the forms are also made responsive.

I also did some rework on the server structure and made some custom components to modularize the page building further.

## Next Milestone 6

For my next milestone I plan to add more functionality. I will make a basic chat application which may later be extended with more functionality.
First there will be:
- one channel only without selection
- authorized users may access
- chat messages will show for all immediately
- messages stored in mogo db
- user possibly has gravatar icon which will be displayed
- login/logout message will be send automatically

As always I have no concrete timeline for this, but come again maybe in a month. 


_Alexander Schilling_
