---
title: Node.JS Modules using Builder
layout: post
tags: Alinex
---

I will give you a short overview of how I manage my packages using a Linux
machine.

## What is Builder?

In short it is a set of helper commands for development of node packages.
Realized as a superset of npm and other command line tools.

It may help a lot while developing to automatize the consequently done tasks with:

- easy to use build tool
- supporting complete process
- specialized for the alinex modules
- usable for other modules, too
- working with multiple packages at once

The [Builder](http://alinex.github.io/node-builder) is a node module which you
should install globally as a general helper command.

## Create a new Package

First if you don't have it install node.js ([howto](http://alinex.github.io/node-alinex/src/doc/install.md.html))
and then the builder using:

``` sh
sudo npm install -g alinex-builder --production
```

Now you can call the `builder` from anywhere on your system to create a new package
from scratch. This will create:

* the directory
* make some initial files
* init git repository
* setup github repository
* add and commit everything

Before I start keep in mind that all my packages are named `alinex-...` to have an
own name range and not get into conflict with existing modules later when publishing.

``` sh
builder ./node-mypackage -c create --package alinex-mypackage
```

In this line I call the builder with a till now not existing directory `node-package`
where I want to create my new module. The command `create` with the package name
`alinex-mypackage`

This process is interactive and will ask you some more details. After that you
may directly start to add your code.

``` text
prompt: Should a github repository be initialized?:  (yes)
Init new git repository
prompt: GitHub username::  (alinex)
prompt: Password for GitHub login::
prompt: Give a short description of this module.:  My test package.
Create new GitHub repository
Connect with GitHub repository
Create new package.json file
Create new README.md file
Create new changelog file
Create new travis-ci configuration
Initial commit
Push to origin
```

This will do the most part and create you a complete stub to start with.

To use travis-ci, coveralls and gemnasium later go to the links in the new
README.md and make your accounts there and enable the Github repository. For
coveralls I get a new security key (per package) which I have to set in the
`.travis` file to allow trusted connection to coveralls.

You will find a package with the following structure on your disk:

``` text
alinex-application/
  src/
  test/
  .gitignore
  .npmignore
  README.md
  Changelog.md
  package.json
  coffeelint.json
  travis.yml
```

To install the basic dependent packages I will run the installation just now:

``` sh
npm install
```

That will download and install all defined dependencies within a newly created
`node_modules/` subdirectory.

## Coding




Plan the features and structure
Write the end user documentation
Make the tests
Code till all tests work
- install new packages
- write the code
- push and pull while coding on multiple machines

## Test the Code

Linting
Mocha Tests
Coverage

## Continuous Integration

travis
coveralls

## Publish new Version

version management
publish npm
create docs
publish docs

