---
title: PlantUML
layout: post
tags: PlantUML
---

Definitions
==============================================================================


What is UML?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
It's the unified modeling language which defines a graphical tool set to describe
software projects. It is standardized and defines different diagram types which
visualize:
- structure
- behaviour
- interaction

As of today it is widely used in planing, design and documentation.


What is PlantUML?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PlantUML is a free software which let's you create UML diagrams from plain text
descriptions. It contains a readable text syntax to define a lot of the parts
of such diagrams. With a tool it can be converted into an image for display.


Usage
==============================================================================

Editor
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
As editor to create such diagrams any text editor is possible. But some of them
like [Atom.io](http://atom.io) has an extended support of the language. With the
use of plugin packages the Atom editor can give you syntax highlighting, code
completion and a nearly wysiwyg view in a second panel. See my
[Atom blog entry](2016-01-23-atom.html) entry for how to install and use it.


Integration
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Image
You may convert the diagram into any type of image or pdf and include it anywhere.

### Confluence
This CMS System has also a plugin which adds PlantUML Macros to store the source
and create the image on the fly. With this approach you have the additional
support of the search engine which will index the source of the graph.

### Markdown
You can include it also in markdown but till now I didn't know of a processor
which transformes it natively so you may write a plugin therefore.

### XXXDoc
Also some code generation tools have support to create UML diagrams on their own
and to transform the ones you've written down.


Syntax
==============================================================================
